---
title: Latin America—Tackling Illicit Financial Flows (TIFF) Programme
summary: The Tackling Illicit Financial Flows (TIFF) Programme works with a number
  of state institutions providing expert assistance as they seek to strengthen a country's
  strategy and response to IFFs and linked corruption.
start_year: '2022'
end_year: '2025'
client: U.K. Integrated Security Fund
solutions:
- Economic Growth
- Peace and Stability
regions: Latin America and the Carribean
country: Colombia,  Ecuador,  Peru, Panama
layout_mode: ''
featured_image: ''
---

The [Conflict Stability and Security Fund](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/conflict-stability-and-security-fund/about) (CSSF) is a cross-government fund that tackles conflict, stability, and security challenges overseas that threaten U.K. national security. CSSF is funding the Combatting Illicit Economies Programme (CIEP) regional project that works to increase organizational effectiveness to identify, tackle, and suppress the illicit economies generated by Latin America. CIEP has a particular focus on illicit financial flows (IFFs), money laundering, and corruption networks underpinning those illicit economies.  

Under CIEP, the Tackling Illicit Financial Flows (TIFF) Programme works with a number of state institutions providing expert assistance as they seek to strengthen a country's strategy and response to IFFs and linked corruption.
   
Intended outcomes include: 
1. An increase in the capacity of Ecuador’s Fiscalía del Estado (FDE) to analyze, investigate, and prosecute domestic anti-corruption dynamics of concern to the institution and the Authority.  
2. The successful delivery of the strategic illicit finances work plan of Colombia’s Fiscalía General de la Nación (FGN), which envisages an enhanced capacity to analyze, investigate, and prosecute IFFs sustaining organized crime and other linked threats.  
3. An increase in the capacity of Peru’s Superintendencia Nacional de Aduanas y de Administración Tributaria (SUNAT) to apply IFF monitoring and analysis to tackling illegal deforestation.  
4. An increase in the capacity of regional finance intelligence units (FIUs) to share best practices between countries and, ultimately, to collaborate cross-region.  

## Sample Activities

* Provide strategic support to the FDE in Ecuador to enhance its capacity to tackle domestic anti-corruption dynamics.  
* Provide strategic support to the FGN in Colombia in the implementation of the strategic work plan of that institution’s illicit finances directorate. 
* Enhance localized capacity within the Peruvian tax authorities (SUNAT) to trace and tackle IFFs as they contribute to deforestation in the Amazon. 
* Working with two or more regional (Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, and Peru) Financial Investigation Units to share best practices between countries and promote enhanced intra-regional collaboration. 